# Rust Hello World

Creating a new Rust project is done with `cargo`. This folder was created by
using the command `cargo new 2017/hw` -- and by default, the `main.rs` folder
**is** a **Hello World** program.

Interestingly, the `cargo new` command also initialises a git repo in the
project folder -- unless we are already inside an existing repo (as we are
here!) This is a nice detail!

Additionally, using `cargo` allows us to simply `cargo run` rather than the
`rustc main.rs`, `./main.exe` we would use otherwise. We need to add the
`target/` folder and `cargo.lock` to our `.gitignore` file.

## Crates

To move the _print_ statement into a separate module ("crate"), we need to do a
little more.

Creating the `lib/hello` crate was easy, with `cargo new lib/hello --lib`.

To make it available to our `hw` project we needed to add the following line to
our `Cargo.toml` file:

```toml
hello = { path = "../lib/hello" }
```

At first glance this all seems a little more structured than a basic `Go`
package -- and the [documentation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch07-00-managing-growing-projects-with-packages-crates-and-modules.html)
talks about "packages" and "crates" and "modules", so I'll need to wrap my head
around the distinctions at some point -- but the tools do a good job of creating
the basic structure you need to get started. (Go, on the other hand, tends to be
a little more free-form!) The default code generated by the `--lib` option even
had a test; something else to learn about!

But for now, our `Hello World` program with modules (or packages, or crates?)
works.
