# Go (AKA Golang)

When I moved jobs from the place where I spent so many years [playing with
Perl](./Perl.md), I kinda wanted to learn something new.

I spent a bit of time playing with Python (something that had been on my radar
for a while), and I dabbled briefly with Ruby and Rust, but ultimately I found
it quicker to get something running with Perl; I just couldn't waste the extra
time trying to learn something new. After all, programming was not actually my
job (well ... okay, it's complicated) but rather, it was a tool I used to save
time.

When that job ended just before Covid hit, I struggled to find something new. I
thought that maybe I should think about changing industries, and going for an
actual programming job. I looked around for a new, modern language that seemed
worth investigating -- and found Go. Long story short, I'm still in the same old
industry -- albeit in a somewhat different role -- but I actually enjoyed Go
enough that when I needed to write something new for my last job, I reached for
it.

(Somewhere around then, I begrudgingly made the switch from SVN to Git -- mostly
because so many programmer job applications wanted to see your github page. Once
I stopped using it as though it was SVN, I started to appreciate it -- and now I
could never go back!)

Only to find that my work environment literally would not allow me to compile a
program, admin rights or not.

The job after that, though -- my current position -- I found a use for it. I had
also been playing with it at home, so I was familiar enough to dive right in.
And honestly, it's possible Go is my new favourite language; the speedy compile
times make it almost as useful as Perl for rapid development. And Go in a modern
development environment is awesome; hard to believe I'd spent so many years only
using `SciTE`!

Sure, there are things Go does which tend to confuse me -- the lack of a
`while`, for instance, took a little getting used to. The behaviour of `slice`s,
the not-quite-`enum` approach (although `iota` certainly helps there!)

It was an obvious choice to use to tackle the [second year](../2016/README.md)
of these puzzles.
